So let's start
with one of the most important questions:
why would we use custom actions?
I mean, after all
there are plenty of public actions available
like this upload-artifact action.
Or if you visit the GitHub Marketplace for actions,
you will find that there are tons
of other actions available as well.
Lots of actions published by various companies,
but also lots of open-source projects,
so, lots of community actions,
you could say.
So, there are lots of actions
for performing all kinds of things with GitHub actions,
and in your GitHub action workflows and jobs.
So, why would you build custom actions?
Well, there are two main reasons.
The first reason
is that you might want to simplify various steps you have
in your workflows.
For example, instead of writing multiple,
possibly very complex,
step definitions,
you could build and use a single custom action
to simplify your workflow.
You could also reuse that action across multiple jobs
if you had multiple jobs that performed the same steps,
for example.
And indeed that is something we have seen
throughout this course.
For example, here in this project,
which will be the demo project we'll work on
throughout this course section,
but more on that later.
But, for example, on this project,
I have a step where I cache dependencies,
followed by a step where I install dependencies.
And I have these two steps in a lot of jobs
in this workflow.
I have these steps in the lint job,
in the test job,
and in the build job.
So we have the same combination of steps
with the exact same work that's being done
in these steps
in multiple jobs.
And therefore,
one reason for creating custom actions could be
that you want to group such steps together
and reuse them across multiple jobs,
so that you don't have to copy
and paste these step definitions across these jobs.
Another reason for building and using a custom action
could also simply be
that there is no existing public action available
that does exactly what you need to do.
The existing public actions
might not solve the specific problem you're facing
in your workflow
in the way you want them to solve this problem.
Or you might want to build your own action
because you have more control over how it solves
a certain problem.
Therefore, you might want to build a custom action
instead of using a public one
because custom actions can contain any logic you need
to solve your specific workflow problems.
And as you will learn throughout this course section,
there are also different ways of creating custom actions,
so that you can also use any programming language
of your choice in the end.
And by the way, last but not least,
as soon as you did create a custom action,
you could, of course,
also publish it in the marketplace
to make it available to other users,
so that they can benefit from your action in the future.
So, this could be another reason for building custom actions
that you simply want to contribute back to the community.